Tip & Feathers for an Arrow: Intersections of Law of Tort and Contracts
Author(s): Faras Mohan Dewal (farasmd@outlook.com)

Abstract
We have set out to analyze the intersections of The Law of Torts and The Law
of Contracts with an objective to present a creation and criticism analysis of
The Digital Personal Data Protection Act, number 22 of 2023.
We present a collective interpretation of the historical acts, The Indian
Contract Act, 1872, the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 and the Specific Relief
Act, 1963 and their amendments, as statutory evidence to our findings and,
judicial interpretations to provide a sense of belonging with the laws of the
present day.
Law cannot be created ab-initio and mandates overlapping civil jurisdictions
for The Law of Tort and other civil acts, number 9 of 1872, The Contract Act;
and number 47 of 1963, The Specific Relief Act. The overlapping further the
claim of amendment to rights and duties, liability and consequence,
protection to incorporeal properties and civil procedures including evidence,
mandatory injunction on artificial or natural legal entities.
The rights and wrongs of a person, artificial or natural, are the person's identity, wherein the Law of Tort is enforced whenever a person is found in the wrong. This requirement by the procedure established by law grants the Law of Tort an ever evolving status to govern public policy, societal changes , technological advancements and the human biosphere. The Law of Tort is a branch of Law, under the Supreme Law of The Land, The Constitution of India.

The Constitution of India grants exemplary powers to each of its organ to build the nation. Reasonable restrictions apply to citizens and rights in rem are surrendered to The Constitution. Such surrendering of rights by the State is provided under article 20 and in Common Law under the principle, `Nullum crimen nulla poena sine lege`, which provides that neither conviction nor punishment of a person is to be without either law or lawful procedure.

Law cannot be created ab-initio and mandates overlapping civil jurisdictions for The Law of Tort and other civil acts, number 9 of 1872, The Contract Act; and number 47 of 1963, The Specific Relief Act. The overlapping further the claim of amendment under many Acts to the rights and duties, liability and consequence, protection to incorporeal properties, civil procedures and personal laws on natural or artificial legal entities.

ABSTRACT
We have set out to analyze the intersections of The Law of Torts and The Law of Contracts with an objective to present a creation and criticism analysis of The Digital Personal Data Protection Act, number 22 of 2023.
We present a collective interpretation of the historical acts, The Indian Contract Act, 1872, the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 and the Specific Relief Act, 1963 and their amendments, as statutory evidence to our findings and, judicial interpretations to provide a sense of belonging with the laws of the present day.
Law cannot be created ab-initio and mandates overlapping civil jurisdictions for The Law of Tort and other civil acts, number 9 of 1872, The Contract Act; and number 47 of 1963, The Specific Relief Act. The overlapping further the claim of amendment to rights and duties, liability and consequence, protection to incorporeal properties and civil procedures including evidence, mandatory injunction on artificial or natural legal entities.
Keywords: rights in rem; civil jurisdiction; IPR; Evidence; Injunctions; Information Technology; DPDP Act, 2023;

methodology

key findings

conclusions


Table of Contents
Chapter I       Introduction
Chapter II      Statutory Provisions
Chapter III     Doctrines
Chapter IV      Case Laws
Chapter V       Extra-judicial Remedies
Chapter VI      Critical Analysis
Chapter VII     Conclusion
Chapter VIII    Future Work
Appendices
  Bibliography
  Acknowledgements
  About the Author(s)
  Article 51A: Fundamental Duties

Introduction, Chapter I
  The rights and wrongs of a person, artificial or natural, are the person's
  identity, wherein the Law of Tort is enforced whenever a person is found in
  the wrong. This requirement by the procedure established by law grants the
  Law of Tort an ever evolving status to govern public policy, societal changes
  , technological advancements and the human biosphere. The Law of Tort is a
  branch of Law, under the Supreme Law of The Land, The Constitution of India.
  The Constitution of India grants exemplary powers to each of its organ to
  build the nation. Reasonable restrictions apply to citizens and rights in
  rem are surrendered to The Constitution. Such surrendering of rights by the
  State is provided under article 20 and in Common Law under the principle,
  `Nullum crimen nulla poena sine lege`, which roughly translates to neither
  conviction nor punishment without, either law or lawful procedures.

  Law cannot be created ab-initio1 and mandates overlapping civil jurisdictions
  for The Law of Tort and other civil acts, number 9 of 1872, The Contract Act;
  and number 47 of 1963, The Specific Relief Act. The overlapping further the
  claim of amendment to rights and duties, liability and consequence,
  protection to incorporeal properties and civil procedures including evidence,
  mandatory injunction on artificial or natural legal entities.

  <rain and stone upon stone ref in foot note>

  <reference to author who said that 'public policy unruly horse, mere illusion, '>

  the Law of Torts is a branch of Law <reference>
    evolution
      Law of Tort (salmond and wilfred) <references>
      article 142 of the Constitution of India Vs. ubi jus ibi remedium

  #reasonable restrictions Vs. Jus naturale
  Reasonable restrictions apply to citizens under The Constitution of India
    wherein rights in rem have been surrendered to The Constitution.
  A just example of such surrendering of rights by the State is provided under
  Article 20 of The Constitution of India and in Common Law under the
  principle Nullum crimen nulla poena sine lege <ref_ncnpsl>
  #CoI.20: ex-post facto, double jeopardy, self-incrimination
  #audi alteram partum Vs. ex-parte judgement

  The Law of Contract and Law of Torts have overlapping civil jurisdictions for
  law cannot be created ab-initio. The interfacings of The Law of Contract and
  The Law of Tort further the claim of amendment to rights and duties,
  liabilities and consequences, protection of incorporeal property, civil
  procedures including mandatory injunctions and, cyber torts.

Statutory Provisions, Chapter II

Doctrines, Chapter III

Case Laws, Chapter IV

Extra-Judicial Remedies, Chapter V

Critical Analysis, Chapter VI

Conclusion, Chapter VII

Future Work, Chapter VIII

Bibliography
  ref_ncnpsl: https://www.ilms.academy/blog/nulla-poena-sine-lege-principle-of-no-punishment-without-law
    as on Jun 03, 2025, 1155h
Acknowledgements

Article 51A of The Constitution of India

About the Author(s)
